Three Traitors were selected
and one Secret Traitor
was also chosen.
You are the Secret Traitor.
That Secret Traitor will work alone.
Each night. they will provide you
with a murder shortlist.
You can only murder
one of the people
that is on the murder shortlist.
But after one banishment...
I am a Faithful.
THEY GASP
Course she is.
..and two ruthless murders.
suspicion in the castle
began to soar.
It's Ben!
Whoever has done that
is beyond mean.
That whole performance at breakfast
did not ring true to me.
Ben said. "If I'm not here.
that means that it's Ross."
- There must have been a Traitor
that heard that.
- In that room.
I'm looking at Stephen.
A fierce Round Table...
A Traitor has set me up and.
Stephen. you were in that group.
It was the overacting of the.
"Oh. I'm trying to look
for a shield."
You did say it a hell of a lot.
I'm sorry. Hugo.
You haven't brought anything
to the table.
..resulted in the Faithful
catching their first Traitor.
I am a...
..Traitor!
THEY CHEER
The two remaining Traitors
were set a treacherous task...
"You must shortlist nine players
for murder.
"Leave a fingerprint on each of
the nine players
"that you wish to shortlist."
"One of these players
will be murdered tomorrow.
"If successful. the Secret Traitor
will join you tonight."
..summoning the Secret Traitor
to finally be revealed.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Come in.
This is The Traitors.
Oh. my God.
# Fire... #
KNOCK ON DOOR
Come in.
# Burn it all down... #
THEY LAUGH
Fiona!
My heart.
- Well...
- Oh. I didn't...
- You minx!
- I am.
You are now officially
the Secret Traitor.
I will do my best
to be as treacherous as possible.
This is just wonderful.
I'm drunk on power.
FIONA CHUCKLES
- Why Netty?
- Oh. she was lovely.
a teacher.
I trusted her.
I do have the feeling Rachel
is a Faithful.
Do you know what. Hugo?
I think you're probably
one of the last people
that I've not actually spoken to.
We haven't had a good chat. have we?
Hugo has certainly become quiet
until this morning.
Barristers don't collect evidence.
That's the police's job.
You got one.
CHEERING
I am loving my role
as the Secret Traitor.
SHE CHUCKLES
It's so much fun.
Oh. my goodness.
I was wonderful. wasn't I?
You were
very good.
Hollywood is beckoning.
I can feel it.
I can't believe
Fiona's the Secret Traitor.
She is playing
a very. very good game.
- Look at you voting out Hugo.
- Do you know what?
- He messed up big time.
so I had to go gung ho on him.
- OK.
It had to be done.
I basically have done your job
for you for the last few nights.
Fiona coming in makes me nervous.
because I think Fiona's going
to ruffle some feathers.
Are you happy to be in the turret?
Oh. I love it.
I'm so thrilled
to actually meet my fellow Traitors.
And if the devil
could have cast his net.
he wouldn't have had a better three.
- Welcome to your new home.
- Ohh. Oh. thank you.
So we got given our secret mission -
a shortlist for murder -
and I put Stephen down
and a mix of people
that are Faithfuls and a mixture
of people that have heat.
That's a real good ploy.
We need to now stick together...
- Yes.
- ..as much as possible
for as long as possible.
Oh. the Celts together!
I know.
- Don't let it go to your head.
- A cwtch and a kill.
Fiona!
Oh. you're something else.
Oh. dear me.
Shall we go. then?
Forget my individual power.
Let's share it between us.
It just requires trust. However.
this is a game of manipulation
and Traitors are Traitors.
SHE CHUCKLES
# Running. running
# It's the rapture coming
# They're gonna catch ya... #
So. with no murder committed.
everybody will be
showing up to breakfast.
But unbeknownst to the Faithful.
some of them will have made
the Traitors' murder shortlist.
Oh. bloody hell.
- Empty.
- Yeah.
- OK.
I am slightly nervous.
but excited to see
how they're going to react.
I hope it throws
a lot of chaos into
the breakfast room this morning.
How are you guys feeling
about us getting a win yesterday?
Honestly. there's no feeling
like it.
My heart was actually
jumping out of my chest. you know?
You're like. "You're not supposed
to be this excited."
I thought we'd made
a massive mistake.
- because he was in character...
- Yeah.
- ..right up until the very end.
- He is a panto dame. for sure.
- STEPHEN LAUGHS
KNOCK ON DOOR
- Oh.
- Come in.
CHEERING
Hey! Oh. my God!
It's a strange feeling.
going into breakfast
no longer a Secret Traitor.
- How are you both?
- Fiona!
- It's lovely to see you.
- Oh. my goodness.
I'm very good. according to my son
and my husband. Gwyn.
at flowering stories up.
I quite like white lies
and I do want to win.
so I think I'm going
to do really well here.
Hugo was not on my radar.
He was just nowhere near.
Yeah. he weren't on my radar either.
And then when you gave such...
that eloquent speech.
it was like. "Hang on now..."
I set the goal up.
You put it in.
So. I can't tell
if Fiona is putting on an act
or if she is just being Fiona.
Either way. it is working for her.
She just has people
eating out of the palm of her hand.
Like. I cannot believe it's her.
I can't... I'm still in shock.
URGENT KNOCK ON DOOR
- Mm!
- Oh. oh!
Come in.
CHEERING
Yes!
- Hello.
- Good morning.
- Look at that.
- I don't think
anyone's a Traitor in here.
Not going to lie.
I'm pretty sure it's Reece
and I've got conclusive evidence
that everyone
at the Round Table was witness to.
You'll probably remember it. but
I'll bring it up at the Round Table.
Brilliant. Well. then. focus.
Get it together.
So is that the only three left?
It's Reece. Amanda and Matt.
We can't lose Amanda.
She's fierce.
And if they all walk in.
there's been a recruitment.
KNOCK ON DOOR
- Come in.
- Come in!
CHEERING
- Who isn't here?
- Who's gone?
- Are we the last?
- Who's not here?
- Are we?
That means
there's been a recruitment.
- You're all here.
- We're all here.
- They've recruited.
Oh. my God.
I'm just really confused.
There's been no murder. um...
..so is it recruitment?
So that means
there's now a new Traitor.
- Oh.
- Oh. dear.
- Here we are.
- Oh. hello.
Good morning.
You are all here.
present and correct.
So what does that mean?
Were the Traitors merciful?
I'm afraid they weren't.
While they did not commit a murder.
they did put nine of you
on trial for murder.
- Nine?
- Just so you know.
they did this yesterday
in plain sight.
They could have chosen
either Faithful or Traitors.
The following nine people
are up for murder.
They are...
..Amanda.
Faraaz.
Jack.
Jade.
James.
Maz...
..Reece.
Sam...
..and Stephen.
So. to you nine.
really. really enjoy your breakfast.
because. for one of you.
it will be your last.
This is normally when I say
it's time for a mission.
but today is going to be
a little bit different.
Before the mission.
you will have a Round Table.
So enjoy your pastries and focus.
because a banishment is imminent.
What? What?
"You've been shortlisted
for murder."
How the hell have they done that?
It's disappointing.
but I'm not going to give up.
I feel grim.
Just because we do know
that Hugo was a Traitor yesterday.
do you all remember
interacting with him.
- you know. like in some...?
- He didn't speak to me.
Did anyone who's been murdered
hug him?
Well. I hugged him.
I don't think
it will have been that anyway.
So can we just say. of those nine.
Traitors could easily
put themselves in there
- to seem not suspicious. right?
- There must be one in that nine.
I would say at least one.
If it was all nine up for murder
and they didn't want to be
in any danger.
they'd remove themselves.
but they'd have to put themselves
in the mix.
I don't know why I said
to include me in the line-up.
It's such a bad idea. because
the Faithfuls
will always just assume
that there's a Traitor in that mix.
I had a lapse of judgment
in the moment.
and I am nervous about how
this is going to play out for me.
Man. I've been up for murder
literally every day.
Every day. I don't know
what I'm doing wrong...
- Come down here.
- ..or who
I'm rubbing up the wrong way.
Guys. have you seen this?
JESSIE GASPS
It's on the family tree.
What?!
ROXY GASPS
It's on the family tree.
Oh. my God!
- So it looks like a red...
- Like a fingerprint or paintbrush.
Oh. well spotted!
Surely somebody must have noticed
that at some point during the day.
Someone's walking past here and
got to be doing this. like. surely.
I mean. it takes time. doesn't it?
It does take time.
If we think about a time point
when this could have happened.
- let's say post Round Table...
- Yeah.
- Right?
Sorry to say this. because I don't
have much of an inkling on you.
- Maz. right...
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Absolutely.
..but there was a moment last night.
and yourself and Roxy were in here
having a look at the painting.
Yeah.
- Have you figured it out?
- Have we heck.
And then five minutes later.
the chimes started going off.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
- So what I'm asking you is
you didn't notice any of this
when you were here with Roxy?
- Because I left you two...
- Oh. no. Listen. I'm a big mouth.
- That's a good point.
- I know. I know.
I think we've got to find the person
who thinks they looked at this
- the latest in the day to see
if any of this was on there.
- Yeah.
- But. mate. that was five minutes
before the bells chimed.
- Yeah.
Oh. and it wasn't on there then?
It was definitely not on there.
This morning.
we're going to have a Round Table.
I was not expecting this
and I'm anxious
for myself and Rachel.
I'm going to have to pin it
on Maz.
This early Round Table
is the worst thing
that could have happened to me.
I had a very troublesome time
yesterday with heat on me.
because of Ben dying
and basically going.
"Last words..."
Ben said he thought
I might be a Traitor
and then poor Ben was murdered.
But only five people knew
that information.
- Who was the group again?
- Stephen...
..Jessie...
James was in there.
Fiona. I think. was mentioned.
And Ellie.
- So you think one of those people...
- No. no. no. no. not I think.
It's a fact.
Someone in that five is a Traitor
trying to set me up.
James was in that room.
I'm just saying.
James has got such a big mouth.
he usually goes spouting everything.
How has it stayed inside with James?
Nobody would assume it's James
because it's just James.
I've heard that phrase
so many times already.
but I think he's just
playing into that.
You know when you just get
an inkling about someone?
I've just got that inkling.
If you're still going
with Ross again today.
I'm backing it up.
I can't do another Hugo number.
I haven't got enough there.
You think it's Ross? You...
It's only because
we dismiss the obvious so quickly
and I think that's very dangerous.
Yeah. I agree. I agree.
I'm concerned about
the early banishment.
I'm petrified that. because we have
to make impulsive. quick decisions.
we're going to be shooting blanks.
and that's going
to hit something wrong.
Three people that I think...
..are Jade.
Sam and Stephen.
- Mm.
- Do not mention this to anyone.
- No. no. no.
- Do not mention it
at the Round Table.
- If it's reassuring.
I also think Stephen...
- Yeah.
..because he sits opposite me
at the Round Table
- and he looks so...
- Guilty.
- He doesn't...
- He's just not confident.
He's the biggest voice
around the castle.
but as soon as you get to that
Round Table. he doesn't say much.
- He's like an orchestra. isn't he?
- Yeah.
- But that stays here.
I'm suspicious of Stephen.
I think he's just so cool. so calm.
so under the radar
no-one would expect him.
But I don't have
enough evidence yet.
If Stephen's not a Traitor...
HE IMITATES EXPLOSION
# The storm is coming
# Feel it in the air
# Echoes all around... #
At last night's Round Table.
the Faithful managed to
catch a Traitor.
and Hugo was banished.
They've only just finished
their breakfast
and it's time for another one.
So. will the Faithful do it again?
Will their luck continue?
# Are you ready for a
# Wild ride? #
I'm implicated by the Library Five.
I could have been implicated
by this murder shortlist.
I feel like I could be
in a really dangerous spot.
It's the first Round Table since
I had to take my secret cape off.
and I hope the other Traitors
will be on my side.
I'm anxious. I'm worried it will be
my head on the chopping block
on this unnecessarily early
Round Table.
Players. welcome to the Round Table.
As you can see from the timing.
there is nothing predictable
in this castle.
Faithful.
you have a real opportunity now.
You can catch a Traitor.
You caught one yesterday.
So the question is.
can lightning strike twice?
The floor is yours.
Could I start. please?
Basically. I just wanted to say
that I'll be probably
voting for you again today. Sam.
What sort of solidified
that feeling for me
was the way you approached
the Round Table yesterday.
I think it was
such a stark difference.
because when Hugo
came under fire straight away.
I feel as if that
maybe took you by surprise
and you took a step back
and didn't want to
go after a fellow Traitor.
You just sort of
jumped on the bandwagon.
I did go into last night
less certain.
and that's why I was less vocal.
I came into the first Round Table
being very convinced
that Judy was a Traitor.
so that really did throw me.
So going into second one.
I wanted to take
a more listening approach this time
because I got it so wrong
the first time.
I don't think I've displayed
any traitorous behaviour so far.
I might be some gut feelings
and stuff like that.
but I've questioned people
and I've tried to work together
as a team to find people.
Can I. just whilst we're chatting
about you?
You and Judy had a disagreement
and she was a Faithful.
So that just really raises.
like. a little alarm bell for me.
- At that time.
she really had her back up.
- Yeah.
I think someone had told her that
I'd maybe spoken about her name.
So she was angry in that moment.
it's an emotional deflection.
We don't have that many facts.
- That's the only red flag I have
at the moment.
- Yeah.
There is just one point as well
that I wanted to make.
These murders in plain sight. right?
They are designed to give us clues.
OK? Because you're asking a Traitor
to do something
whilst everyone is running wild
around the castle.
- OK?
- Mm-hm.
- Yeah.
- So who was the last person I saw
at that painting?
- Yeah.
- And I've spoken to you before. Maz.
through this process.
- Yeah.
And so I was thinking to myself
last night. you know...
Oh. sorry. this morning.
after we found out how.
you know. the thing was done.
- that you were the last person
- I
- saw there.
I was walking from the kitchen
to the bar.
saw Roxy and Maz at the painting.
Then I went to the bar.
sat down next to Fiona.
and then five minutes later
the bells started chiming.
- You three saw it?
- Yeah.
- And when he left.
there was no dots?
- Yeah.
- Absolutely no dots.
- Me and Maz saw zero red dots.
We left and that was it.
Did you leave together
from that painting?
Yeah. I think
we went to the kitchen.
Jade.
I've had suspicions about yourself.
When you were questioned by Amanda.
um...
..you didn't really answer.
You got defensive.
And my gut instinct is
that you are a Traitor.
Sorry. I need to add.
I've had my suspicions
from the beginning.
And last night. it was almost
like Hugo put me in the spotlight...
..and I think it was
to basically protect you.
Now. I think Amanda's a Faithful.
I do.
- Thank you. I am.
- And the only thing
that I can grasp straws from
is that Hugo would want
to protect another Traitor.
Hugo's a smart man.
He did things very deliberately.
- He did things on purpose.
- Yeah.
The comment that he made at you.
that you were playing
a blinding game...
- As a Faithful.
- OK. but I need
to look at it from both ways.
- OK.
So I think he found you threatening.
So he either found you threatening
as a Faithful.
or he either found you threatening
as a Traitor.
Can I...? Can I ju...? Oh. um...
The reason why I wanted to jump in
now was in self-preservation.
I do feel like I'm being set up.
One of these five that heard Ben say
that he thought I was suspicious...
But hold on. who were the five?
Jessie. James...
- Myself.
- Me.
- My issue is that he's dead
and only those five people
had a motive to kill him -
to incriminate me.
In that room. Ben...
SHE STAMMERS
..said...
SHE GASPS
On my last tank of air!
..that. "If I get murdered.
then it's Ross."
That is just too much
of a coincidence.
I was there. Ben said your name.
The only thing I don't know was
whether that information
was secure to the five people
in the room.
I don't know that.
Yes. there was a conversation
in the library.
However.
any person here could have thought.
"Oh. well. Ben went for Ross."
It's not like
that was the only time
he had ever mentioned your name.
- James.
- Hello.
Because you heard that information
and we've heard a lot from you.
how comes you didn't tell anybody
that vital information?
- Obviously. you directed it to me
mainly. That's fine.
- Yes. yes.
Personally. you know -
I'm not saying you are -
I'm not ruling out the fact
that you might be a Traitor.
And I learned my lesson
to stop going bang. bang.
James. just answer Ross's question.
Why...? You say so. so much -
which I don't think is
a bad thing at all -
but how were you able to hold on
that piece of information
and not tell a single person
around this table?
To be honest. cos I feel like
I'm being played by someone.
- it feels like
I'm being confused on purpose.
- OK.
Cos I'm like.
"I can't keep answering everything."
- Yeah. I know.
- "There's other people here."
All right. Cool.
Thank you for answering my question.
That's my genuine answer. And you
can please suspect me all you want
cos I've got nothing to hide.
I did have something else to say.
Yesterday at this Round Table.
Reece. you grilled me.
which you're entitled to do.
It's fine. but I'm like.
"Do you think I'm a Traitor?"
You answered. famously. "No."
Boom! If you're a Faithful.
why on earth would you grill someone
you think's a Faithful?
Makes no sense to me.
There's two reasons.
Either you're trying to frame me
cos you can see I'm on the ropes.
Or the most obvious option -
you're a Traitor.
I still stand by it.
I don't think you're a Traitor.
- Thank you. I'm not.
- If me interrogating you yesterday
has put that kind of doubt
in your head. I apologise.
One of the sort of
question marks I had
is that you're coming across
very confident at the table.
- That was all I was going to
put to you.
- Of course. yeah. fair.
Confident talker. yes.
I'm absolutely...
I will always stand by that point.
I can't really hide it.
- You're a confident man.
- Mm-hm.
Are you a confident person
- in this role
because you're a Traitor?
- Mm-hm.
I don't know.
There was a thing about
the way that Ross and Netty met.
When you were explaining that
it really was just a coincidence
that you and Netty had been
brought into the game together.
you used the phrase. "The plan was
not to recognise her in advance."
And I noticed this specifically
because if there is...
If it's purely a coincidence.
then how can there be a plan.
Sorry. sorry.
that's incorrect words.
- And I've explained that
several times. actually.
- OK.
Thank you for surprising me here
with it. Um...
Well. it's our job to do this.
When I noticed Netty.
I had not initially planned
to mention anything.
Because I'd come out. hugged Hugo
was mid hug or about to hug Roxy.
that's when I noticed Netty.
I hadn't planned
to acknowledge Netty at all.
She swung her arms out.
and then I had to ten toes it.
The only thing
that unsettles me about
the whole you and Netty thing
is obviously of course
there is a very whatever chance that
you didn't know you were both...
But it's just more the odds
that's unsettling me.
See. that's another narrative
that I struggle with.
And honestly makes me
really suspicious.
It's suspicious
that people want to push it.
- Can I ask you a question?
- Please.
Was Hugo this dramatic
in the turret?
Was Hugo this...?
- I'm sorry. I don't understand.
- Was Hugo dramatic in the turret?
I didn't... In what turret?
You've just said. "What turret?"
When I jokingly threw that out.
"What turret?"
Like. we all know. there's
a Traitor's turret here. you know.
- So to me...
- Oh! I didn't know
what you were referring to.
- Sorry. I genuinely didn't know
- Right.
To me. I think it's so obvious.
You're saying it's obvious.
What am I doing obvious?
So. Netty being murdered.
- it was so obvious it pointed to you
that it couldn't be true.
- OK.
And I'm saying but it's so obvious.
why are we ignoring the obvious?
Players. the time for talk is over.
Please write down the name of
the person you believe is a Traitor.
Stephen.
we're going to start with you.
Who do you believe is a Traitor
and why?
Maz.
I'm going on the evidence I have -
who I saw at the painting last.
I'm sorry.
Ellie.
Reece.
Your explanation today
felt suspicious to me.
Jack.
Um. Reece. I've stuck with my guns
from yesterday
and not trying to be swayed
by other people.
Amanda.
I don't think it will come
as any surprise. sorry.
- It was just the way
Hugo defended you.
- Sure.
James.
Reece.
Yesterday's Round Table
kind of just gave me
the light-bulb. Eureka moment
I needed.
Sam.
- So I'm really sorry. Reece.
- It's fine.
I genuinely think
you're a lovely bloke.
Matthew.
Sam.
We've got very few facts
in this game.
You just struck a chord with me.
so...
Jessie.
Reece. Just the evidence
that was brought up here.
it convinced me
just that little bit more.
Reece.
I've gone with Ross.
Um. I'm very aware
that sometimes
I'm just stabbing in the dark.
So I'm just listening
to all the evidence that we've got.
Harriet.
Ross.
I think sometimes
the most obvious explanation
IS the explanation.
Rachel. Who do you believe
is a Traitor and why?
I've gone for Ross.
Simply because I think
within the obvious
is the perfect place to hide.
So a vote count.
Five for Reece. three for Ross.
one for Maz. one for Jade
and one for Sam.
Ross. who do you believe is a Traitor
and why?
I've gone for Stephen
because I'm OBVIOUSLY being framed.
OK.
Jade.
Ross. I'm sorry. Your behaviour
when you answered Rachel's question
rung alarm bells for me.
Maz.
Jade. it's you.
You're just too suspicious for me
and that's why I voted for you.
Fiona.
I voted for you. Ross.
It just seems. as Rachel said.
perhaps I'm overlooking the obvious.
Adam.
Sorry. Jade. Just due to my theory.
Faraaz.
I think it'll come to no surprise.
Sam.
I'm voting for you
for reasons previously mentioned.
So. five for Reece and five for Ross.
It all comes down to this last vote.
# I still believe in your mind. #
Roxy. whose name is on your slate?
- Ross.
- Ooh!
And I'm so. so sorry.
I think you're a great guy
and I wish we could have got
to know each other a bit more.
Ross. you have received
the most votes.
Please come up here and join me.
Ross. you have received
the most votes
and you are banished from the castle.
Before you leave us. please reveal
are you a Faithful
or are you a Traitor?
This has actually been fun.
It's been really fun.
It's been lovely to meet you all.
I feel like. you know.
I've made some lifetime friends.
And. yeah. I got a real bad hand.
I think you'd all agree.
I have always been...
- ..a Faithful.
- Ooh!
- I told you guys!
- I knew it.
Bang goes that theory. then.
It was too obvious.
It was getting pinned on him.
I knew it.
Faithful. your luck has run out.
Yesterday you caught a Traitor.
but you have just banished
one of your own.
And things are only going
to get worse
because one of the nine of you
who have been put on trial
will be murdered.
So. shortly. a mission.
And if this Round Table
rattled your cages...
..that's nothing.
I'm so sorry. guys. I feel...
I'm so sorry. I just...
- It's not your fault.
The Traitors
have done their work
because they have framed Ross.
I'm really sad to see him go.
Especially because...
..Ross is actually my boyfriend.
- Ross.
- Ellie.
- Live and work in London.
- What about yourself?
- Yeah. I also live in London.
- Is it?
Oh!
I was worried about you
this morning.
Thanks for today. Thank you.
# I won't let us finish yet. #
What I've got to do now
is avenge his death.
# Please don't take this
as a threat. #
I've got to work a lot harder.
I want to catch a Traitor for him.
My gosh.
SHE EXHALES SHARPLY
Ross. mate. you were stitched up!
SHE SIGHS
It's Stephen. It's Stephen.
- Are you all right?
- It was just. like. a split decision
- between him and Reece...
- I know.
..and I just put my relationship
with Reece first.
It just goes to show
how wrong we can get it.
And here they all come
to chat a load of bollocks.
Honestly. this is mad. This is mad.
- You all right?
- Yeah. just
feel like shit cos I got it wrong.
- Yeah. yeah.
- I hope you don't hate me.
Not at all. mate. The game's the
game. isn't it?
I think we're all
going to put each other down.
- It's all right. It's all right.
- Oh. man! Come on.
- You're all good. pal.
- I think it's good
that everyone understands
that it is a game.
Yeah. 100%. It is not
a personal attack on anyone.
Reece. this is the first time
I've seen you so upset.
or in fact. upset at all.
And seeing the strength
of your reaction to that.
I'm not remotely suspicious
of you right now.
It's an awful feeling.
being that close to being voted out.
Um. I'm not really sure why
I've rubbed people up the wrong way
as much as I clearly have so far.
But for it to be
down to quite literally
the single last vote
and to be saved by the absolute
skin of my teeth was...
..horrific.
I'm interested about...
your thing about
who was standing
next to the family tree.
Yeah. that... And I think that's
a strong... That's a strong point.
I'm quite surprised
that I'm the only one
that voted for Maz tonight.
cos I thought
I had the golden bullet when I...
And I thought. like.
when I said to the table.
"They were the last people
I saw at the picture."
I thought everyone was going to go.
"Oh. my God!
"Well. he's cracked it then."
You know?
By this point. you know.
I've had suspicion on me
at the Round Table.
Ross has been looking at me.
I just feel like I need
to reconsider how I play this game.
I was thinking about this
and I think there's
probably three Traitors remaining.
I can't see it.
At the moment. I can't see it.
I'm not going to get blinkered.
It's just because of...
that room with Ben.
That room with Ben has been proven
to be a set-up by the Traitors.
It's proven now.
so you can surely dispel that.
Stephen...
But he hasn't pushed that.
He's not pushed that whole room.
Ellie hasn't pushed it.
Why would you not push it?
It's written out there.
There must have been one there.
Please. Honestly.
Because if I aren't here another
day. please look at that room.
All right.
- I've just got to pot this red.
- Oh. my word.
- Oh. this game.
- Isn't it?
With the prize fund
currently standing at £23.750.
the players are making their way
to today's mission
in the hope of adding to the pot.
- Oh. yeah.
- Just a team of people
up for murder.
The early Round Table
has fried my brain.
- I'm like. "I don't know where I am."
- Yeah. and she said something
about rattling cages
or cages being rattled.
- I think it's a possibility.
- Sam's in there.
- Yeah. Stephen's in there.
- Yeah. Everyone whose name
has been floating around
as a Traitor is in that group.
- pretty much.
- Yeah.
# You've been around all night
And that's a little long
# You think you've got it right
But I think you've got it wrong
# Why can't you say goodnight?
So you can take me home. #
- Oh. my God!
- Oh!
- No. I don't like that.
What the heck?! I'm scared!
DRUMMING
Look at all these people.
Now that's giving me the freaks.
Oh. my goodness. When we arrived
at this mission. there were...
..loads of druids
with gold masks and hoods up
and drums.
It felt like a cult ceremony.
THUNDER RUMBLES
Welcome. players.
Don't mind my friends.
They don't bite...
..if they're fed.
THUNDER RUMBLES
So you might have survived
the Round Table.
Not all of you
will survive today's mission.
As you know. nine players
were put on trial for murder.
When I say your name.
please step forward and enter a cage.
Amanda.
Faraaz.
- Jack.
- Thanks. Stephen.
Jade.
- James.
- Naturally.
Maz.
Reece.
Sam.
And Stephen.
I'm slightly worried
about Stephen.
This is probably the closest so far
that we've come
to making a big mistake.
The rest of you have
an enormous responsibility.
Your individual performances
will decide
whether these players
live to see another day.
or whether they are in line
for murder tonight.
You must now each pair up
with somebody
whose life you want to fight for.
There are nine caged players.
There are eight of you.
That means that one poor soul
will stay on trial for murder.
Please let me know
who is going to choose first.
So. Matthew. you're choosing first.
I'm going to choose Faraaz.
Please go and stand by his cage.
Who wants to choose next?
Harriet.
- James. please.
- Thank you.
Jessie.
Jack.
- Thank you. Jessie.
- Love you!
Amanda.
I'm going to play it safe
and choose Amanda.
She is a very smart player.
and we have a nice bond so far.
So I'm going to try
and keep close to her.
A natural alliance
to have in the castle.
It was a strange one
to pick Amanda
rather than Stephen.
I don't understand
how Amanda has
come into the equation.
Who's choosing next? Yes?
I'd like to pick Stephen.
I'm really glad that
Roxy decided to try and save me.
My biggest fear was that no-one was
going to come to my side.
- Yes. Ellie?
- I pick Jade.
Do you want to go next?
- Ladies first.
- OK.
I'm going to choose Reece.
So. Adam. as you can see.
there are two players left.
You have Sam and you have Maz.
You can choose one
and you will fight for their life.
The other player will automatically
stay on trial
and could be murdered tonight.
You have a big decision to make.
Sam. I think you're genuine.
But going to have to pick Maz.
I'm sorry.
Sam. you will remain on trial
and could be murdered tonight.
It takes you back
to the school days. isn't it?
Picking teams and getting
picked last is a horrible feeling.
Gutted about that.
So. let the procession commence.
Lacrimosa Dies Illa
by Mozart
DRUMMING
The druids lifted the cages...
Oh. my God.
..and it was like
a funeral procession.
It was giving sacrifice.
All of the drums. the druids.
I think. for me. it was the unknown
of what we were heading into.
Where on earth are we going?
I didn't need to pull out
any acting chops for this one.
I WAS terrified
that I had made a terrible mistake.
- What can you see?
- Bones.
- What?
- Bones?
I am a retired police officer.
Pressure. you know. I've dealt with
for the majority of my life.
What can they possibly throw at me
that would even equate
to what I faced in the police?
DRUMS AND MUSIC FADE TO SILENCE
Players. welcome to the marshlands.
Safe players.
this is where you will compete
to save the life of your partner.
Sam. obviously you don't have
anyone fighting for you.
but we brought you here to watch.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
Hidden in this marshland...
..are these.
Skulls.
Your job is to find
and stack ten of them.
If you manage to build
a stack of ten skulls
on the plinth next to your partner.
their cage will automatically open
and they will no longer
be on the murder shortlist.
Only the first five that are freed
will be safe from murder.
For every player that is freed.
I will add £2.000 to the prize fund.
The players who are still locked
in their cages
will have to stay here in the woods
to find out their fate.
Is everyone clear?
You have 30 minutes.
Three. two. one.
GO!
Oh. my God!
JESSIE SCREAMS
You've got it. Don't fall over!
- Oh!
- Ooh!
- Oh. my God!
Only the first five people
to complete their tower of skulls
would get through.
So I will not hold back.
It's like that feeling
of someone else depending on you -
you just want to help them.
- Come on. Fiona!
- Come on. Rach. you've got this!
We're running through the swamp.
and I've got flies. like.
trying to invade my personal space.
And now I've got to go
and find ten skulls
and balance them
on top of each other.
Good lad!
Oh. Matty. you legend!
I fancied my chances here.
so I was back within 15. 20 seconds.
my arms full of skulls.
That is a lot of skulls.
Oh. my God! How many have you got?
Quick. quick. quick.
One. two...
It was a lot of...
..pressure.
because Jack's life was in my hands.
Seven. eight. Two more.
Go. go. go! Come on!
JESSIE SCREAMS
- How many have we got?
- Five. I've got.
- One. two...
You've got four to get. Rachel!
It was a race against each other.
You could feel the tension.
Like. the air was very heavy.
Come on. Ellie.
I knew I wasn't
going to be the fastest.
but I know I'm good
at finding things.
You got this.
Where's Fiona?
Come on. Jessie.
Just two more. Come on!
- Oh. my God. Jack!
- No way!
- Yeah. Matty.
- Matt. Matt.
Well done. mate. that's sick.
I've not got any.
- How many is that?
- Have you got ten?
- Have I?
That's it. that's it.
You got it. you got it.
Come on. Adam!
Not seen Fiona once.
Go on. Harriet.
You're doing very. very well!
Come on. Roxy!
I feel like I've lost total control.
Right. Look at... Look at Matt.
Look at Matt. Roxy.
I don't know how I get out of this.
Put the head the right way round.
There you go. my darling. That's it.
HE EXHALES
Matthew has done it.
- Yes. come on!
- You legend. mate!
I was just in awe of how quick
he completed it. to be honest.
I'm indebted to you. mate.
Oh. mate. I'm actually buzzing.
I'm... Thank you.
Faraaz is safe from murder tonight.
and they have added £2.000
to the pot.
Oh. come here. boyo!
This is stressful.
Really slow. Really slow.
Steady hand. Steady hand.
- Oh. shit.
- There's none down there.
is there?
- No.
- Sorry. darling.
Those skulls were so hard to find.
I was looking everywhere.
At one point. I think I was. like.
tempted to climb a tree.
Where is Fiona?
It was a lovely. simple task.
So I kind of took my time.
This is so lonely.
I was not a gazelle jumping the bog.
This is like death Jenga.
That's it. my darling.
- Oh. no!
- Argh!
- Take... Take...
- Right. yeah.
Right. be really careful.
Really slow.
Is this the last one. Jack?
Last one.
Careful. careful. careful. Wait.
She's done it!
Oh. my God. Jack's free!
YEAH!
Oh! Yes!
JACK LAUGHS
Oh. my God! Jack!
She was lightning-fast.
and I couldn't have been
more proud of her.
- It's done!
- Ellie!
- This one is done!
Jade is free.
Well done to Ellie.
Oh. my God!
Three players have been freed.
Only two more can now be freed.
I feel really isolated.
out of control.
I was just waiting there
for the game to end.
Honestly. I couldn't wait
for it to be over.
- Five.
- Keep going. Rachel!
Oh. my God.
she's still only got one.
Argh!
Fiona hasn't even
started stacking. Where is she?
- Maz. How many have you got. Maz?
- Four up to now.
- I've got zero. bro.
Cages were getting opened
quite quickly.
and at this point.
still hadn't seen Fiona at all.
You just need one.
- Is that nine?
- Yeah. yeah. you need one.
- Oh. God!
Rachel. ask one from Fiona.
I'm not going to be freed. am I?
Get Fiona's.
Fiona! Reece said give me
one of yours
cos he's not going to be freed.
- No!
- Look. he said it!
- Fiona. give her one!
- Thank you.
Thank you! Reece. thank you.
I could be wrong on this.
but it just seemed so odd to me
that Reece was telling Fiona
to give away the skull she'd got
for him to other players.
I mean. is that the play
of a Traitor
trying to look like a Faithful.
or is it actually a Faithful
just trying
to help his fellow team-mates?
Can't find the other two. man.
Ask Fiona for two. Quick!
Fiona. darling. you can give me two.
Thank you. my babe.
- Yes!
- Whoo!
- Come on. Harriet!
Thank you kindly.
- Yes!
Yabba Dabba Doo!
Harriet.
you are quite possibly my hero.
Traitor hunter. Cager releaser. Wow.
That woman.
James is free.
And that is £8.000
added to the prize fund.
There is only one place left.
Right. start building them.
We need to build them
faster than them two. Quick.
- Doing well. doing well.
- That's it. OK. really slow.
- Just take your time.
- Take your time. Nice and easy.
- Oh. my God! Oh. my God!
- No!
- OK.
Oh...!
It's one place left.
It is unbelievably tense.
Come on. come on. come on. come on.
come on. come on. come on.
Don't drop it.
- Last one.
- Yeah. that's it.
Oh!
CLAUDIA GASPS
I can't watch.
Rachel is almost there.
- YES!
Well done! Amanda is free.
Players. the mission is over.
Well done.
Fiona. come back! Fiona!
Could somebody
please send a cab for Fiona?
The pressure was unreal
during that mission
cos I was trying to save Maz.
and someone beat me to it.
but I done my best for him.
Well done. players.
You released five players.
so a massive £10.000...
- Come on!
- Yes!
- ..has been added to the prize fund.
And those five players.
you are now protected from murder.
For those of you
who didn't get released -
Stephen.
Reece.
Maz
and Sam -
I'm afraid it's a very different end
for you.
You will be left in your cages
and then one of you will be murdered
tonight by the Traitors...
..face-to-face.
RACHEL GASPS
Oh. my God!
- FIONA. GIGGLING:
- It is so wicked.
I like being mischievous.
It's so much fun!
And at least they can go home
knowing who the Traitors are.
So it's a gift. It's a gift.
Think of it that way.
On that bombshell.
everyone. please say their goodbyes
and then head back to the castle.
- Sorry. man. Sorry. mate.
- It's all right.
- I tried.
Listen. you did your best.
and that's all it is.
I was gutted.
But I don't blame Adam.
Unfortunately.
the others just beat us to it.
and I could be murdered for it.
I love you so much.
Thank you for the effort. genuinely.
- Thank you.
- I'm just so sorry.
- It's fine.
Fiona. bless her.
I literally worship her
like she is my mum.
I knew that she wasn't
going to get me out.
so that's why I was like.
"Look. get...
"Give whatever you've got
to Rachel and Amanda. get them out."
I am a Faithful
and that's what's gutting.
- Yeah. It's disappointing.
- Yeah.
I just cannot tell you
how tonight's going to go.
I really don't know. But
I hope to death that it's not me.
Don't go tonight.
And if you do. I love you so much
- and you've been brilliant.
- Guys!
Obviously I can't
be murdered tonight. but I think
I did quite well
in kind of feigning shock.
People seem to be seeing me
as a Faithful right now.
I don't know how they'll see me
when I come back tomorrow.
I have a feeling
that poor Stephen's for the chop.
- If Reece comes back tomorrow...
- ..you're going to be convinced.
- It looks really suspicious.
- ..I think he is a Traitor.
I'm more moving on
to Stephen being safer.
What he does... What he does. what
I've noticed on the Round Table
is he'll give an opinion.
but he'll give an opinion
once he knows
what everybody else's opinion is.
OK. got you. Yeah.
- There must have been Traitors
in the cages.
- Yes.
Who do you think
the Traitor in the box is?
Stephen.
THUNDER RUMBLES
This is the first night I know
I'm going to come to breakfast.
What a feeling.
Who's in your mind at the moment?
Amanda's sharp.
I don't feel strongly about
whether she's a Traitor or not...
- Nor me.
- ..but what I do know
is she's very suggestive.
- Mm.
She underplays her intelligence.
She's someone who tells you
what you should be thinking a lot.
- Yeah.
- Yeah!
That's all she does with me.
Yes. Yes. she does that...
She does that with me as well.
It's the only person trying to.
- like. consciously influence other
people's way of thinking.
- Yes! Yeah.
If I was a Traitor. I'd be like.
"Harriet. I want you
on my team instantly."
Very intelligent.
I was interested in how
she voted for Ross today.
and she did talk about it
before the table.
but I don't think she was there
at all before today.
That's because Rachel said.
Because it was Rachel and Harriet.
and they said.
"You're missing the obvious..."
- Yeah. but...
- "..we are going for Ross."
But Harriet wasn't on
that train of thought until today.
- So who has put that in her mind.
then?
- Good point.
I think Rachel is very influential
with a select few people.
I sense that Rachel
is playing her own game
and I'm ready for that.
So the jury's out with me
at the moment.
She's got a lot to prove to me.
- Any particular glass?
- Surprise me.
I think you're a purple bubble girl.
- I am!
- Purple bubble.
- Yeah. I like that.
Hello. Fiona.
So. what's your thoughts?
We've just been talking down there.
Oh. God. Hang on. What? Who? What?
Your names are coming up.
- Oh. really? Why?
- Yeah.
That you are an influencer.
Oh. I wish. Can you tell me who?
I was chatting to
- um. James. Ellie...
- Oh. interesting.
- ..and Adam.
Oh. interesting.
I feel vulnerable because people
have got an image of me
that I've got it all sussed.
that I'm an influencer.
and the image could
quite easily be pushed onto
the shoulders of a Traitor.
You know. I'm trying to play
that down.
And it's really hard
to be less Detective Chief Inspector
and be more charity worker.
And you as well with regards
to who were the people
that have been pushing
the narrative?
- What...what narrative am I pushing?
- On Ross. which was you.
and apparently
Harriet's never said Ross.
And then she suddenly
mentioned Ross today.
- No. she did before the Round Table.
- She did!
Oh. that's not what...
That's not what was said down there.
Fiona came in
trying to stir the pot.
saying my name in front of Amanda.
She's so unpredictable
and I'm watching her.
I think she is very dangerous
for my game.
SHE SIGHS
CLOCKS TICK
BELL TOLLS
- But I'll see you tomorrow.
- You WILL see me tomorrow.
Night-night.
As the clock chimes.
the safe players return to their beds
knowing they're safe from murder.
However. in the woods. four players
are still locked in cages.
Of course.
Traitor Stephen is in the mix.
so one of the other three Faithful -
Maz. Reece or Sam -
will be murdered tonight.
# This is the beginning of the end
# And it ends around it... #
I'm shaking with cold. with fear.
My heart was. like. pounding.
I could feel Reece's heart pounding.
Petrified I could
be murdered tonight.
The idea that this could be it
is. like. really unsettling.
Obviously. because I'm stuck
in a cage.
I don't get to go to the turret
and have a chat
with Rachel and Fiona.
I'm so disappointed in myself
that I put myself in this situation.
# Hunted and surrounded. #
Oh. what a day.
- Fiona.
- We still haven't spent
any time together.
- I know.
- We need to be playing
the same game...
- Yeah.
- ..if we want to
focus on winning
and not having suspicion
around each other.
Yeah. Let's make a
point of spending time together.
- I really feel we must.
- OK.
- Um. so...
- What about Stephen?
- It's not nice. is it?
- No. it's not.
It was a decision made
to put him into the nine.
- A lot of players think there's
Traitors within the nine...
- Yeah.
..so he's starting to get
a little bit of heat on him.
- So...
- It's Sam. Reece and Maz.
Stephen -
who do you think he would think?
He voted for Maz.
Does it harm his game
if we take Maz out?
Is it going to endanger him?
I find Sam more dangerous than Maz.
cos Maz is stuck on Jade.
Sam is a very astute man.
I think because
he made an error with Judy.
he is watching and he's very subtly
making suggestions.
Will Reece being killed
put any suspicion on Stephen.
do you think?
In terms of murdering Reece.
he was really visibly upset...
- Yes.
- ..after the Round Table
and a couple of people said.
"Given your reaction. I actually
think you're a Faithful."
- Right.
- So I don't know.
- You have more experience of knowing
the way that Stephen thinks.
- Mm-hm.
So as long as you are sure
it's the right one.
- then I'll go with you.
- Do you know what? I just...
- I want to get it
over and done with...
- Yes.
- ..and get back to...
- Let's do it.
And get back to murdering in here.
where people can't see us.
- I prefer that much better.
- Do you?
- Yeah.
- Oh. I think it's nice
to look at them...
- Do you?!
- ..and tell them!
- Fiona. this is so cruel.
- OK. I will do the honours.
- Ah...
We had to think. how could we
help Stephen with this one?
And I do think that we put
the right person in the grave.
TENSE MUSIC
We were in a horror film.
Total silence. Almost pitch-black.
And some henchman
walking around with a massive axe.
Please. please don't murder me.
If I was to survive tonight.
I'm going all guns blazing tomorrow
cos I've got to
throw everything at it.